suicide is one of the biggest killers of
young men under 45 it's it's scary and
it's Friday no it's real you know it's
weird because I've always loved football
but I've loved football more now than
I've ever loved it before and I didn't
what it is whether it's become a parent
now and I need football more in my life
I don't know maybe it is that we fell
football was a really good way to reach
some of the hard to reach people to get
them to talk about their feelings to not
let things get to breaking point to the
guy got his feet on this so for me
personally I grew up in a family where
it was kind of seeing that the way ease
is if you don't give away too much
emotion you keep things to yourself you
may be done engaged too much together in
an emotional kind of way and it's an
important thing and I think something
that we're all much more aware of now
and there's probably a lot more to do it
does seem like a lot of it has come
about from from the war you know two
world wars there is no matter talking no
matter explaining no amount of
cancelling you can have that can get a
whole generation past the atrocities and
the grief and the sadness that you know
whole nation felt about two world wars
and I think that in itself made a
generation internalized all the problems
because they just wanted to get on with
life they just wanted to move on but
right now we have to start questioning
whether that's relevant in today's world
and how we're living it's Christmas in
the town of gusano in Swansea and 28
year old Matthew or Jamo as he's known
to his friends is out celebrating with
the local football court
I've been normal for for years and years
and years and years it's only last five
six years where I've suffered from
anxiety it just came on there's nothing
there has brought it on it's not a nice
place to be if you've been that like
from the soul and the pie and you know
everything be normal I forgive I love
lovely upbringing everything's great
you start getting anxiety for something
you don't understand
then it throws you off it throws you off
your path you like this isn't meant to
happen to me I think if we can get some
of this male masculinity we diagnosed
that would be fantastic
rather than the big you know guy you
know I'm all strong I'm all blue you
know I don't talk about stuff and I'm
just hard well that's great you can
still do that but let's talk about stuff
that's going on as well like real stuff
it is a big challenge and and I don't
expect to fix it in you know one
campaign two campaigns even maybe ten
cameras I don't know but ultimately it's
about extending that conversation and
and telling people it's okay to talk
about it
all of today's games kickoff a minute
late as part of a campaign to encourage
fans and players to think about their
mental well-being sometimes
stress this isn't just about the players
it's about anyone and everyone who's a
football phone if only a few people turn
around the next day and go you know I've
got it I've got to deal with a letter
hell I've got to have that conversation
gotta start taking what's happening
seriously then it'll be a success
[Applause]